README.md, before:

# KUKSA.VAL

This is KUKSA.val, the KUKSA **V**ehicle **A**bstration **L**ayer.

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/kuksa-val.svg)](https://gitter.im/kuksa-val)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-EPL%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/EPL-2.0)
[![Build Status](https://ci.eclipse.org/kuksa/buildStatus/icon?job=kuksa.val%2Fmaster)](https://ci.eclipse.org/kuksa/job/kuksa.val/job/master/)


KUKSA.val provides a [Genivi VSS data model](https://github.com/GENIVI/vehicle_signal_specification) describing data in a vehicle. This data is provided to applications using a variant based on the W3C VISS Interface. KUKSA.val supports VISS V1 https://www.w3.org/TR/vehicle-information-service/ and extensions as well as parts of the upcomming VISS2 standard (https://raw.githack.com/w3c/automotive/gh-pages/spec/Gen2_Core.html, https://raw.githack.com/w3c/automotive/gh-pages/spec/Gen2_Transport.html), that are applicable to in-vehicle VSS servers.

See [Supported Protocol](doc/protocol.md) for a detailled overview.

## Features
 - Websocket interface, TLS-secured or plain
 - [Experimental REST interface](doc/rest-api.md), TLS-secured or plain
 - [Fine-grained authorisation](doc/jwt.md) based on JSON Webtokens (RFC 7519)
 - Optional [JSON signing](doc/json-signing.md) of messages
 - Built-in MQTT publisher
 - [VSS testclient](./clients/vss-testclient) to interactively explore and modify the VSS data points and data structure

## Quick start

### Using  Docker Image
If you prefer to build kuksa.val yourself skip to [Building KUKSA.val](#Building-kuksaval).

Download a current docker image from our CI server:

https://ci.eclipse.org/kuksa/job/kuksa.val/job/master/

The container images should work with any OCI compliant container runtime, in this document we assume you are using docker

Import the docker image

```
docker load -i kuksa-val-b3084b9-amd64.tar.xz
```

Your build tag may vary, and for ARM machines you need to choose an arm64 images.

Prepare an empty directory `$HOME/kuksaval.config`.  Run the docker image using the tag reported by `docker load`:

```bash
docker run -it --rm -v $HOME/kuksaval.config:/config  -p 127.0.0.1:8090:8090 -e LOG_LEVEL=ALL amd64/kuksa-val:b3084b9
```

More information on using the docker images can be found [here](doc/run-docker.md).

To learn, how to build your own docker image see [doc/build-docker.md](doc/build-docker.md).

If this is succesful you can skip to [using KUKSA.val](#Using-kuksaval).

## Building KUKSA.val
KUKSA.val uses the cmake build system. First install the required packages. On Ubuntu 20.04 this can be achieved by

```
sudo apt install cmake build-essential libboost1.67-all-dev libssl-dev libglib2.0-dev libmosquitto-dev 
```

When fetching the source, make sure you also get the needed submodules, e.g. by using the `--recursive` flag

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/eclipse/kuksa.val.git
```

Then create a build folder inside the kuksa.val folder and execute cmake

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
```
If there are any missing dependencies, cmake will tell you. If everythig works fine, execute make

```
make
```

(if you have more cores, you can speed up compilation with something like  `make -j8`

Additional information about our cmake setup (in case you need adavanced options or intend to extend it) can be [found here](doc/cmake.md).



### Running kuksa.val
After you successfully built the kuksa.val server you can run it like this

```bash
#assuming you are inside kuksa.val/build directory
cd src
./kuksa-val-server  --vss ./vss_rel_2.0.json  --log-level ALL

```
Setting log level to `ALL` gives you some more information about what is going on.

For more information check [usage](doc/usage.md).


## Clients

In the [clients](./clients) folder, you can find differents clients for kuksa-val-server

### Python test client

You can use the [testclient](./clients/vss-testclient/) to test basic functions like _getMetaData_, _getValue_ and _setValue_ requests.

After starting the kuksa server using `./kuksa-val-server` command. For testing you can downlaod and load the the testclient docker image similarly to the main server and start it like this

```bash
docker run -it --rm --net=host amd64/kuksa-vssclient:b3084b9
```

or you can start the testclient as follows:

```bash
cd clients/vss-testclient
pipenv sync
pipenv run python testclient.py
```


Check the [testclient readme](./clients/vss-testclient/README.md) for more detailled installaton instruction.

Once the testclient is up, you can start exploring the VSS structure and datapoints:

![Alt text](./doc/pictures/testclient_basic.gif "test client usage")

Using the testclient, it is also possible to update and extend the VSS data structure. More details can be found [here](./doc/liveUpdateVSSTree.md).


### Feeder

We provider currently the following feeders:
- [DBC feeder](./clients/feeder/dbc2val)
- [GPS feeder](./clients/feeder/gps2val)


### Node-red example flows

You can also use node-red to talk with kuksa-val-server, either via MQTT or via Websocket.

Check the [readme](./clients/node-red/README.md) for more details.


## Other topics

 * Experimental [D-Bus](doc/dbus.md) connector

Commit message:

mv config ini to toplevel
Signed-off-by: Chen Wenwen (CR/AME5) <Wenwen.Chen@de.bosch.com>

README.md, after:

# KUKSA.VAL

This is KUKSA.val, the KUKSA **V**ehicle **A**bstration **L**ayer.

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/kuksa-val.svg)](https://gitter.im/kuksa-val)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-EPL%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/EPL-2.0)
[![Build Status](https://ci.eclipse.org/kuksa/buildStatus/icon?job=kuksa.val%2Fmaster)](https://ci.eclipse.org/kuksa/job/kuksa.val/job/master/)


KUKSA.val provides a [Genivi VSS data model](https://github.com/GENIVI/vehicle_signal_specification) describing data in a vehicle. This data is provided to applications using a variant based on the W3C VISS Interface. KUKSA.val supports VISS V1 https://www.w3.org/TR/vehicle-information-service/ and extensions as well as parts of the upcomming VISS2 standard (https://raw.githack.com/w3c/automotive/gh-pages/spec/Gen2_Core.html, https://raw.githack.com/w3c/automotive/gh-pages/spec/Gen2_Transport.html), that are applicable to in-vehicle VSS servers.

See [Supported Protocol](doc/protocol.md) for a detailled overview.

## Features
 - Websocket interface, TLS-secured or plain
 - [Experimental REST interface](doc/rest-api.md), TLS-secured or plain
 - [Fine-grained authorisation](doc/jwt.md) based on JSON Webtokens (RFC 7519)
 - Optional [JSON signing](doc/json-signing.md) of messages
 - Built-in MQTT publisher
 - [VSS testclient](./clients/vss-testclient) to interactively explore and modify the VSS data points and data structure

## Quick start

### Using  Docker Image
If you prefer to build kuksa.val yourself skip to [Building KUKSA.val](#Building-kuksaval).

Download a current docker image from our CI server:

https://ci.eclipse.org/kuksa/job/kuksa.val/job/master/

The container images should work with any OCI compliant container runtime, in this document we assume you are using docker

Import the docker image

```
docker load -i kuksa-val-b3084b9-amd64.tar.xz
```

Your build tag may vary, and for ARM machines you need to choose an arm64 images.

Prepare an empty directory `$HOME/kuksaval.config`.  Run the docker image using the tag reported by `docker load`:

```bash
docker run -it --rm -v $HOME/kuksaval.config:/config  -p 127.0.0.1:8090:8090 -e LOG_LEVEL=ALL amd64/kuksa-val:b3084b9
```

More information on using the docker images can be found [here](doc/run-docker.md).

To learn, how to build your own docker image see [doc/build-docker.md](doc/build-docker.md).

If this is succesful you can skip to [using KUKSA.val](#Using-kuksaval).

## Building KUKSA.val
KUKSA.val uses the cmake build system. First install the required packages. On Ubuntu 20.04 this can be achieved by

```
sudo apt install cmake build-essential libboost1.67-all-dev libssl-dev libglib2.0-dev libmosquitto-dev 
```

When fetching the source, make sure you also get the needed submodules, e.g. by using the `--recursive` flag

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/eclipse/kuksa.val.git
```

Then create a build folder inside the kuksa.val folder and execute cmake

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
```
If there are any missing dependencies, cmake will tell you. If everythig works fine, execute make

```
make
```

(if you have more cores, you can speed up compilation with something like  `make -j8`

Additional information about our cmake setup (in case you need adavanced options or intend to extend it) can be [found here](doc/cmake.md).



### Running kuksa.val
After you successfully built the kuksa.val server you can run it like this

```bash
#assuming you are inside kuksa.val/build directory
cd src
./kuksa-val-server  --vss ./vss_rel_2.0.json  --log-level ALL

```
Setting log level to `ALL` gives you some more information about what is going on.

You can also edit [config.ini](./config.ini) file to configure kuksa val server. This file will be copied to the build directory and used als default config,
if no other config file is specified using the command line option `-c/--config-file`.

For more information check [usage](doc/usage.md).


## Clients

In the [clients](./clients) folder, you can find differents clients for kuksa-val-server

### Python test client

You can use the [testclient](./clients/vss-testclient/) to test basic functions like _getMetaData_, _getValue_ and _setValue_ requests.

After starting the kuksa server using `./kuksa-val-server` command. For testing you can downlaod and load the the testclient docker image similarly to the main server and start it like this

```bash
docker run -it --rm --net=host amd64/kuksa-vssclient:b3084b9
```

or you can start the testclient as follows:

```bash
cd clients/vss-testclient
pipenv sync
pipenv run python testclient.py
```


Check the [testclient readme](./clients/vss-testclient/README.md) for more detailled installaton instruction.

Once the testclient is up, you can start exploring the VSS structure and datapoints:

![Alt text](./doc/pictures/testclient_basic.gif "test client usage")

Using the testclient, it is also possible to update and extend the VSS data structure. More details can be found [here](./doc/liveUpdateVSSTree.md).


### Feeder

We provider currently the following feeders:
- [DBC feeder](./clients/feeder/dbc2val)
- [GPS feeder](./clients/feeder/gps2val)


### Node-red example flows

You can also use node-red to talk with kuksa-val-server, either via MQTT or via Websocket.

Check the [readme](./clients/node-red/README.md) for more details.


## Other topics

 * Experimental [D-Bus](doc/dbus.md) connector
