doc/tls.md, before:

# KUKSA.val TLS concept

This page describes the TLS support in KUKSA.val

## Security concept

KUKSA.val supports TLS for connection between KUKSA.val Databroker/Server and clients.

General design concept in short:

* KUKSA.val Server and KUKSA.val Databroker by default only accept TLS connection. Insecure connections can be allowed by a configuration setting
* Mutual authentication not supported, i.e. KUKSA.val Server and KUKSA.val Databroker does not authenticate clients
* A set of example certificates and keys exist in the [kuksa_certificates](kuksa_certificates) repository
* The example certificates are used as default by some applications
* The example certificates shall only be used during development and re not suitable for production use
* KUKSA.val does not put any additional requirements on what certificates that are accepted, default settings as defined by OpenSSL and gRPC are typically used

## Example certificates

For more information see the [README.md](kuksa_certificates/README.md).

**NOTE: The example keys and certificates shall not be used in your production environment!  **

## Examples using example certificates

This section intends to give guidelines on how you can verify TLS functionality with KUKSA.val.
It is based on using the example certificates.


## KUKSA.val databroker

KUKSA.val Databroker supports TLS, but not mutual authentication.
You cannot start KUKSA.val Databroker just using default arguments as you either must specify that insecure connections
shall be used (`--insecure`) or provide data for a secure connection.
To use a secure connection specify `--tls-cert`and `--tls-private-key`

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ cargo run --bin databroker -- --metadata ../data/vss-core/vss_release_4.0.json --tls-cert ../kuksa_certificates/Server.pem --tls-private-key ../kuksa_certificates/Server.key
```

Default certificates and keys are not included in the default KUKSA.val Databroker container,
so if running KUKSA.val Databroker from a default container you need to mount the directory containing the keys and certificates.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ docker run --rm -it  -p 55555:55555/tcp -v /home/user/kuksa.val/kuksa_certificates:/certs databroker --tls-cert /certs/Server.pem --tls-private-key /certs/Server.key
```

## KUKSA.val databroker-cli

Can be run in TLS mode like below.
Note that [databroker-cli](kuksa_databroker/databroker-cli/src/main.rs) currently expects the certificate
to have "Server" as subjectAltName.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ cargo run --bin databroker-cli -- --ca-cert ../kuksa_certificates/CA.pem
```

Default certificates and keys are not included in the default KUKSA.val Databroker-cli container,
so if running KUKSA.val Databroker-cli from a default container you need to mount the directory containing the keys and certificates.

```
docker run --rm -it --net=host -v /home/user/kuksa.val/kuksa_certificates:/certs databroker-cli --ca-cert /certs/CA.pem
```

## KUKSA.val Server

Uses TLS by default, but doe not support mutual TLS. By default it uses KUKSA.val example certificates/keys `Server.key`, `Server.pem` and `CA.pem`.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa-val-server/build/src$ ./kuksa-val-server  --vss ./vss_release_4.0.json
```

It is posible to specify a different certificate path, but the file names must be the same as listed above.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa-val-server/build/src$ ./kuksa-val-server  --vss ./vss_release_4.0.json -cert-path ../../../kuksa_certificates
```

In KUKSA.val Server the default certificates and keys are included in the container, so no need to
mount a directory if you want to use default certificates and keys.

```
docker run -it --rm -p 127.0.0.1:8090:8090 -e LOG_LEVEL=ALL kuksa-val:latest
```

If using the default KUKSA.val Server Docker container there is no mechanism to use different certificates,
as the [Dockerfile](../kuksa-val-server/docker/Dockerfile) specifies that the default shall be used.

## KUKSA.val Client (command line)

See [KUKSA.val Client Documentation](../kuksa-client/README.md).

## KUKSA.val Client (library)

Clients like [KUKSA.val CAN Feeder](https://github.com/eclipse/kuksa.val.feeders/tree/main/dbc2val)
that use KUKSA.val Client library must typically set the path to the root CA certificate.
If the path is set the VSSClient will try to establish a secure connection.

```
# Shall TLS be used (default False for Databroker, True for KUKSA.val Server)
# tls = False
tls = True

# TLS-related settings
# Path to root CA, needed if using TLS
root_ca_path=../../kuksa.val/kuksa_certificates/CA.pem
# Server name, typically only needed if accessing server by IP address like 127.0.0.1
# and typically only if connection to KUKSA.val Databroker
# If using KUKSA.val example certificates the names "Server" or "localhost" can be used.
# tls_server_name=Server
```

Commit message:

Make insecure default for Databroker (#588)
* Make insecure default for Databroker

Reverts previous change.
Short term decision is that we will not change default behavior,
KUKSA.val Databroker shall unless indicated by arguments start
in insecure mode, i.e.e. accepting non-TLS connections (only).

We agreed that this MAY change in the future, so a warning shall be given.

* Apply suggestions from code review

doc/tls.md, after:

# KUKSA.val TLS concept

This page describes the TLS support in KUKSA.val

## Security concept

KUKSA.val supports TLS for connection between KUKSA.val Databroker/Server and clients.

General design concept in short:

* KUKSA.val Server and KUKSA.val Databroker supports either connections secured with TLS or insecure connections.
* You can use configuration settings to control whether Server or databroker shall require secure connections.
* Default connection type may vary between tools, and may be changed in future releases.
* Mutual authentication is not supported, i.e. KUKSA.val Server and KUKSA.val Databroker does not authenticate clients
* A set of example certificates and keys exist in the [kuksa_certificates](kuksa_certificates) repository
* The example certificates are used as default by some applications
* The example certificates shall only be used during development and re not suitable for production use
* KUKSA.val does not put any additional requirements on what certificates that are accepted, default settings as defined by OpenSSL and gRPC are typically used

## Example certificates

For more information see the [README.md](kuksa_certificates/README.md).

**NOTE: The example keys and certificates shall not be used in your production environment!**

## Examples using example certificates

This section intends to give guidelines on how you can verify TLS functionality with KUKSA.val.
It is based on using the example certificates.


## KUKSA.val Databroker

KUKSA.val Databroker supports TLS, but not mutual authentication.
As of today, if TLS is not configured, KUKSA.val Databroker will accept insecure connections.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ cargo run --bin databroker -- --metadata ../data/vss-core/vss_release_4.0.json
```

The default behavior may change in the future. By that reason, it is recommended to use the `--insecure` argument
if you want to use insecure connections.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ cargo run --bin databroker -- --metadata ../data/vss-core/vss_release_4.0.json --insecure
```

To use a secure connection specify both `--tls-cert`and `--tls-private-key`

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ cargo run --bin databroker -- --metadata ../data/vss-core/vss_release_4.0.json --tls-cert ../kuksa_certificates/Server.pem --tls-private-key ../kuksa_certificates/Server.key
```

Default certificates and keys are not included in the default KUKSA.val Databroker container,
so if running KUKSA.val Databroker from a default container you need to mount the directory containing the keys and certificates.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ docker run --rm -it  -p 55555:55555/tcp -v /home/user/kuksa.val/kuksa_certificates:/certs databroker --tls-cert /certs/Server.pem --tls-private-key /certs/Server.key
```

## KUKSA.val databroker-cli

Can be run in TLS mode like below.
Note that [databroker-cli](kuksa_databroker/databroker-cli/src/main.rs) currently expects the certificate
to have "Server" as subjectAltName.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa_databroker$ cargo run --bin databroker-cli -- --ca-cert ../kuksa_certificates/CA.pem
```

Default certificates and keys are not included in the default KUKSA.val Databroker-cli container,
so if running KUKSA.val Databroker-cli from a default container you need to mount the directory containing the keys and certificates.

```
docker run --rm -it --net=host -v /home/user/kuksa.val/kuksa_certificates:/certs databroker-cli --ca-cert /certs/CA.pem
```

## KUKSA.val Server

KUKSA.val Server uses TLS by default, but does not support mutual TLS.
By default it uses KUKSA.val example certificates/keys `Server.key`, `Server.pem` and `CA.pem`.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa-val-server/build/src$ ./kuksa-val-server  --vss ./vss_release_4.0.json
```

It is possible to specify a different certificate path, but the file names must be the same as listed above.

```
~/kuksa.val/kuksa-val-server/build/src$ ./kuksa-val-server  --vss ./vss_release_4.0.json -cert-path ../../../kuksa_certificates
```

In KUKSA.val Server the default certificates and keys are included in the container, so no need to
mount a directory if you want to use default certificates and keys.

```
docker run -it --rm -p 127.0.0.1:8090:8090 -e LOG_LEVEL=ALL kuksa-val:latest
```

If using the default KUKSA.val Server Docker container there is no mechanism to use different certificates,
as the [Dockerfile](../kuksa-val-server/docker/Dockerfile) specifies that the default shall be used.

## KUKSA.val Client (command line)

See [KUKSA.val Client Documentation](../kuksa-client/README.md).

## KUKSA.val Client (library)

Clients like [KUKSA.val CAN Feeder](https://github.com/eclipse/kuksa.val.feeders/tree/main/dbc2val)
that use KUKSA.val Client library must typically set the path to the root CA certificate.
If the path is set the VSSClient will try to establish a secure connection.

```
# Shall TLS be used (default False for Databroker, True for KUKSA.val Server)
# tls = False
tls = True

# TLS-related settings
# Path to root CA, needed if using TLS
root_ca_path=../../kuksa.val/kuksa_certificates/CA.pem
# Server name, typically only needed if accessing server by IP address like 127.0.0.1
# and typically only if connection to KUKSA.val Databroker
# If using KUKSA.val example certificates the names "Server" or "localhost" can be used.
# tls_server_name=Server
```
