doc/usage.md, before:


# KUKSA.VAL usage
Using `./kuksa-val-server -h`, you can get a list of supported options:

```
Usage: ./kuksa-val-server OPTIONS

OPTIONS:
  -h [ --help ]                         Help screen
  -c [ --config-file ] arg (="config.ini")
                                        Configuration file with 
                                        `kuksa-val-server` input 
                                        parameters.Configuration file can 
                                        replace command-line parameters and 
                                        through different files multiple 
                                        configurations can be handled more 
                                        easily (e.g. test and production 
                                        setup).Sample of configuration file 
                                        parameters looks like:
                                        vss = vss_release_2.0.json
                                        cert-path = . 
                                        log-level = ALL
                                        
  --vss arg                             [mandatory] Path to VSS data file 
                                        describing VSS data tree structure 
                                        which `kuksa-val-server` shall handle. 
                                        Sample 'vss_release_2.0.json' file can be 
                                        found under [unit-test](./data/vss-core/
                                        vss_release_2.0.json)
                                        
  --cert-path arg (=".")                [mandatory] Directory path where 
                                        'Server.pem', 'Server.key' and 
                                        'jwt.key.pub' are located. 
  --insecure                            By default, `kuksa-val-server` shall 
                                        accept only SSL (TLS) secured 
                                        connections. If provided, 
                                        `kuksa-val-server` shall also accept 
                                        plain un-secured connections for 
                                        Web-Socket and REST API connections, 
                                        and also shall not fail connections due
                                        to self-signed certificates.
  --use-keycloak                        Use KeyCloak for permission management
  --address arg (=127.0.0.1)            If provided, `kuksa-val-server` shall 
                                        use different server address than 
                                        default _'localhost'_
  --port arg (=8090)                    If provided, `kuksa-val-server` shall 
                                        use different server port than default 
                                        '8090' value
  --record (=0)                         Enable record feature for replaying into
                                        the server later on. Record file will be 
                                        stored to the specified path with timestamp.
                                        File format is *.csv
                                        possible values:
                                          - noRecord: no Recording will be applied
                                          - recordSet: Record Set Value (inputs of the server)
                                          - recordSetandGet: Record Set Value and Get Value (in- and outputs of the server)
                      
  --record-path (='.')                  Specify path where the record file should 
                                        be stored to. 

  --log-level arg                       Enable selected log level value. To 
                                        allow for different log level 
                                        combinations, parameter can be provided
                                        multiple times with different log level
                                        values.
                                        Supported log levels: NONE, VERBOSE, 
                                        INFO, WARNING, ERROR, ALL

MQTT Options:
  --mqtt.insecure                       Do not check that the server 
                                        certificate hostname matches the remote
                                        hostname. Do not use this option in a 
                                        production environment
  --mqtt.username arg                   Provide a mqtt username
  --mqtt.password arg                   Provide a mqtt password
  --mqtt.address arg (=localhost)       Address of MQTT broker
  --mqtt.port arg (=1883)               Port of MQTT broker
  --mqtt.qos arg (=0)                   Quality of service level to use for all
                                        messages. Defaults to 0
  --mqtt.keepalive arg (=60)            Keep alive in seconds for this mqtt 
                                        client. Defaults to 60
  --mqtt.retry arg (=3)                 Times of retry via connections. 
                                        Defaults to 3
  --mqtt.topic-prefix arg               Prefix to add for each mqtt topics
  --mqtt.publish arg                    List of vss data path (using readable 
                                        format with `.`) to be published to 
                                        mqtt broker, using ";" to seperate 
                                        multiple path and "*" as wildcard
```


Server demo certificates are located in [../kuksa_certificates](../kuksa_certificates) directory of git repo. Certificates from 'kuksa_certificates' are automatically copied to build directory, so invoking '_--cert-path=._' should be enough when demo certificates are used.  
For authorizing client, file 'jwt.key.pub' contains public key used to verify that JWT authorization token is valid. To generated different 'jwt.key.pub' file, see [KUKSA.VAL JWT authorization](./jwt.md) for more details.

Default configuration shall provide both Web-Socket and REST API connectivity.

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect new --overlays parameter
Signed-off-by: Sebastian Schildt <sebastian.schildt@de.bosch.com>

doc/usage.md, after:


# KUKSA.VAL usage
Using `./kuksa-val-server -h`, you can get a list of supported options:

```
Usage: ./kuksa-val-server OPTIONS
OPTIONS:
  -h [ --help ]                         Help screen
  -c [ --config-file ] arg (="config.ini")
                                        Configuration file with 
                                        `kuksa-val-server` input 
                                        parameters.Configuration file can 
                                        replace command-line parameters and 
                                        through different files multiple 
                                        configurations can be handled more 
                                        easily (e.g. test and production 
                                        setup).Sample of configuration file 
                                        parameters looks like:
                                        vss = vss_release_2.0.json
                                        cert-path = . 
                                        log-level = ALL
                                        
  --vss arg                             [mandatory] Path to VSS data file 
                                        describing VSS data tree structure 
                                        which `kuksa-val-server` shall handle. 
                                        Sample 'vss_release_2.0.json' file can 
                                        be found under [data](./data/vss-core/v
                                        ss_release_2.0.json)
  --overlays arg                        Path to a directory cotaiing additional
                                        VSS models. All json files will be 
                                        applied on top of the main vss file 
                                        given by the -vss parameter in 
                                        alphanumerical order
  --cert-path arg (=".")                [mandatory] Directory path where 
                                        'Server.pem', 'Server.key' and 
                                        'jwt.key.pub' are located. 
  --insecure                            By default, `kuksa-val-server` shall 
                                        accept only SSL (TLS) secured 
                                        connections. If provided, 
                                        `kuksa-val-server` shall also accept 
                                        plain un-secured connections for 
                                        Web-Socket and REST API connections, 
                                        and also shall not fail connections due
                                        to self-signed certificates.
  --use-keycloak                        Use KeyCloak for permission management
  --address arg (=127.0.0.1)            If provided, `kuksa-val-server` shall 
                                        use different server address than 
                                        default _'localhost'_
  --port arg (=8090)                    If provided, `kuksa-val-server` shall 
                                        use different server port than default 
                                        '8090' value
  --record arg (=noRecord)              Enables recording into log file, for 
                                        later being replayed into the server 
                                        noRecord: no data will be recorded
                                        recordSet: record setting values only
                                        recordSetAndGet: record getting value 
                                        and setting value
  --record-path arg (=.)                Specifies record file path.
  --log-level arg                       Enable selected log level value. To 
                                        allow for different log level 
                                        combinations, parameter can be provided
                                        multiple times with different log level
                                        values.
                                        Supported log levels: NONE, VERBOSE, 
                                        INFO, WARNING, ERROR, ALL

MQTT Options:
  --mqtt.insecure                       Do not check that the server 
                                        certificate hostname matches the remote
                                        hostname. Do not use this option in a 
                                        production environment
  --mqtt.username arg                   Provide a mqtt username
  --mqtt.password arg                   Provide a mqtt password
  --mqtt.address arg (=localhost)       Address of MQTT broker
  --mqtt.port arg (=1883)               Port of MQTT broker
  --mqtt.qos arg (=0)                   Quality of service level to use for all
                                        messages. Defaults to 0
  --mqtt.keepalive arg (=60)            Keep alive in seconds for this mqtt 
                                        client. Defaults to 60
  --mqtt.retry arg (=3)                 Times of retry via connections. 
                                        Defaults to 3
  --mqtt.topic-prefix arg (=vss)        Prefix to add for each mqtt topics
  --mqtt.publish arg                    List of vss data path (using readable 
                                        format with `.`) to be published to 
                                        mqtt broker, using ";" to seperate 
                                        multiple path and "*" as wildcard
```


Server demo certificates are located in [../kuksa_certificates](../kuksa_certificates) directory of git repo. Certificates from 'kuksa_certificates' are automatically copied to build directory, so invoking '_--cert-path=._' should be enough when demo certificates are used.  
For authorizing client, file 'jwt.key.pub' contains public key used to verify that JWT authorization token is valid. To generated different 'jwt.key.pub' file, see [KUKSA.VAL JWT authorization](./jwt.md) for more details.

Default configuration shall provide both Web-Socket and REST API connectivity.
